# scholar-trees

## Treebank generated from abstracts of arXiv articles as indexed by DBLP.

Here is a batch of parse trees generated by 2 constituency parsers, one from [StanfordNLP](https://nlp.stanford.edu/software/lex-parser.shtml) and the other being the state-of-the-art as of writing, [Neural Adobe-UCSD Parser](https://github.com/KhalilMrini/LAL-Parser).

Compared to Penn Treebank, this dataset is free to use while being substantially larger at 1.6M sentences rather than ~50k in Penn Treebank or variants.
This dataset would not be a good choice if you are looking to train the next best constituency parser or dependency parser, as it has NOT been manually edited.
However for tasks taking parse trees as input, like information extraction, you now have much more stuff that you can play with right away, without doing your own data wrangling.

The dataset is offered as plain files under plain directories for ease of random access, where `by-constituency-parser/` plus the DBLP id (e.g. journals/corr/AlakuijalaOSW17) is the path under which the files `LAL` and `Stanford` are the parse trees generated by the two parsers. Each line of the file is from a sentence. Additionally, `constituency-agreed/` holds sentences for which both parsers generate exactly the same parse.

Currently this repo contains 880k files and 294k directories (Warning: potential performance hazard if you clone this repo on Windows).
Best practice would be to use a (virtual) ReiserFS partition which excels at handling a large number of small files, although anywhere on a usual Linux machine should suffice.

- No. abstracts parsed by LAL-Parser: 294101
- No. abstracts parsed by Stanford Parser: 294101
- No. sentences parsed by Stanford Parser: 1606696
- No. sentences parsed by Stanford Parser: 1606696
- No. sentences that both parsers agree on: 75601


